README.md, before:

# Rust Persistent Key-Value Store

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/persistent-kv.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/persistent-kv)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/persistent-kv/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/persistent-kv/)
[![Dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/acgessler/rust-persistent-kv/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/acgessler/rust-persistent-kv)

This project is a simple implementation of a persistent, unordered key-value store in Rust.
This is intended as building block for applications that need all of _{concurrent reads and
writes, ultra low latency, high durability}_ and meet all of _{data fits into RAM, keys are
unordered, single process}_. Basically a concurrent hashmap that keeps its contents!

Under the hood, the store implements persistence via a write-ahead log that is periodically
compacted into snapshots. Where possible, it employs parallel reads/writes to make
best use of modern flash/SSD drives.

See [crate documentation](https://docs.rs/persistent-kv/latest/persistent_kv/) for design goals, data management and performance tuning.

## Getting Started

### Adding the crate

```sh
cargo add persistent-kv
```

### Basic usage

```rust
use persistent_kv::{Config, PersistentKeyValueStore};

// Create a new store and write one key value pair to it, then drop the store.
let path = "tmp/mystore";
let store: PersistentKeyValueStore<String, String> =
    PersistentKeyValueStore::new(path, Config::default())?;
store.set("foo", "is here to stay")?;
drop(store);

// Create a fresh store instance and observe the key is still there.
let store: PersistentKeyValueStore<String, String> =
    PersistentKeyValueStore::new(path, Config::default())?;
store.get("foo") // Returns: Some("is here to stay")
```

By default, data is persisted immediately: if the process were to abort after the `set(key)` but before
the `drop(store)`, no data should be lost. However, only one instance can be active in any given folder at a time.

### Protobufs as value

There is a built-in API to use protobufs (via [prost](https://github.com/tokio-rs/prost)) on the value side:

```rust
use prost::Message;
use persistent_kv::{Config, PersistentKeyValueStore};

#[derive(Clone, PartialEq, Message)]
pub struct Foo {
    #[prost(uint32, tag = "1")]
    pub bar: u32,
}

let store: PersistentKeyValueStore<String, Foo> = ...
store.set_proto("foo", Foo {bar: 42})?;
store.get_proto("foo")?; // Returns: Some(Foo {bar: 42}))
```

### Configuration

See the [config module](src/config.rs) for available configuration options and the [main crate documentation](src/lib.rs) on notes how the defaults were derived.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

Licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0, ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your discretion.

Commit message:

Add documentation for use with tokio.

README.md, after:

# Rust Persistent Key-Value Store

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/persistent-kv.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/persistent-kv)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/persistent-kv/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/persistent-kv/)
[![Dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/acgessler/rust-persistent-kv/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/acgessler/rust-persistent-kv)

This project is a simple implementation of a persistent, fault-tolerant, unordered key-value
store in Rust. This is intended as building block for applications that need all of _{concurrent reads and
writes, ultra low latency, high durability, crash safety}_ and meet all of _{data fits into RAM, keys are
unordered, single process}_. Basically a concurrent hashmap that keeps its contents!

Under the hood, the store implements persistence via a write-ahead log that is periodically
compacted into snapshots. Where possible, it employs parallel reads/writes to make
best use of modern flash/SSD drives.

See [crate documentation](https://docs.rs/persistent-kv/latest/persistent_kv/) for design goals, data management and performance tuning.

## Getting Started

### Adding the crate

```sh
cargo add persistent-kv
```

### Basic usage

```rust
use persistent_kv::{Config, PersistentKeyValueStore};

// Create a new store and write one key value pair to it, then drop the store.
let path = "tmp/mystore";
let store: PersistentKeyValueStore<String, String> =
    PersistentKeyValueStore::new(path, Config::default())?;
store.set("foo", "is here to stay")?;
drop(store);

// Create a fresh store instance and observe the key is still there.
let store: PersistentKeyValueStore<String, String> =
    PersistentKeyValueStore::new(path, Config::default())?;
store.get("foo") // Returns: Some("is here to stay")
```

By default, data is persisted immediately: if the process were to abort after the `set(key)` but before
the `drop(store)`, no data should be lost. However, only one instance can be active in any given folder at a time.

### Protobufs as value

There is a built-in API to use protobufs (via [prost](https://github.com/tokio-rs/prost)) on the value side:

```rust
use prost::Message;
use persistent_kv::{Config, PersistentKeyValueStore};

#[derive(Clone, PartialEq, Message)]
pub struct Foo {
    #[prost(uint32, tag = "1")]
    pub bar: u32,
}

let store: PersistentKeyValueStore<String, Foo> = ...
store.set_proto("foo", Foo {bar: 42})?;
store.get_proto("foo")?; // Returns: Some(Foo {bar: 42}))
```

### Use with Tokio

Use [`tokio::task::spawn_blocking`](https://docs.rs/tokio/latest/tokio/task/fn.spawn_blocking.html) to
wrap calls to `set(key)` or `unset(key)`. The store provides no native async functionality as the
I/O calls end up being blocking anyway and message sequencing would further reduce the benefits.
Due to the way how locks are held internally, using spawn_blocking() with concurrent set calls is
efficient and approaches the hardware's I/O parallelism.

### Configuration

See the [config module](src/config.rs) for available configuration options and the [main crate documentation](src/lib.rs) on notes how the defaults were derived.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

Licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0, ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your discretion.
